---
path: "/writing/zsh"
date: "2019-11-22"
title: "Switching to zsh from bash"
commentary: false
attract: "The wheel goes round."
---
In preparation from my migration to Catalina this weekend, I put together a quick list of changes to keep in mind when using Bash over Zsh.  Keep in mind that a modern build of Bash has most of these features  but I'll always jump at the opportunity to learn something new.

Here's my humble original bashrc file ([GitHub](https://github.com/xocite/dotrc/blob/master/bashrc)).
```bash
source $HOME/.aliases

# Read our local bashrc.
source $HOME/.bashrc_local

# Set environmental variables.
EDITOR=vim

# Turn off system bell if we're not in an SSH session.
if [ -z ${SSH_TTY+x} ]; then
  if [ -z ${DISPLAY+x} ]; then 
    command -v setterm
    if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
      setterm --blength 0
    fi
  else xset -b
  fi
fi

# Create the prompt.
BLUE="\[\e[0;34m\]"
OFF="\[\033[m\]"
PS1="$%{BLUE%} $ $%{OFF%}"
```

This file also turns off the system bell - very useful for new machines or virtual machines.  `.bashrc_local` isn't checked in version control.  It contains the emoji for the specific machine.  In the case of Apple it's just: 'EMOJI='.

Based on stepping through a lot of ZSH configs (see footer) here's my changes.

## Migrating existing bash config to zsh
To prepare myself for the migration I spent an hour or so reading `man zshmisc`.
First I copied my bashrc into a new file named ~/.zshrc.  Then, because the colour escape sequences weren't working, I updated the BLUE and OFF lines to be compatible.

To test colours, I made heavy use of `print -P '<escape sequence>'` and wrapping the colours in `%{...%}`.
* BLUE="%F{blue}"
* OFF="%f"
* PROMPT="\\$"
* PS1="${EMOJI} %{${BLUE}%}${PROMPT}${OFF} "

As my original config was very simple, this was enough.

## Taking advantage of ZSH functionality
Now zsh has alot of built in functionality that I was reluctant to take advantage of for compatibility reasons -- however, I spend a lot of time in the terminal so I found this few changes a good compromise between a supercharged terminal and a minimalist configuration.

Start by reading `man zshbuiltins`.
### Options
Configure options by running setopt OPTION_NAME and setopt noOPTION_NAME to unset.  http://zsh.sourceforge.net/Doc/Release/Options.html#Options

#### AUTO_CD
Automatically move into a new directory if only that name is typed at the prompt.
```bash
$ pwd
$ /home/local
$ bin
$ pwd
$ /home/local/bin
```

#### APPEND_HISTORY 
All zsh sessions append their command history to a single file instead of replacing it.  Note that the history file isn't updated until that zsh instance exits.

#### EXTENDED_HISTORY
Also save the command's timestamp and duration in the history file.  Extremely useful for timing commands.

#### HIST_NO_STORE
Don't store invocations of the builtin `history` in the history file.

### Functions
#### Completion system
I opted to start using the autocompletion system for smarter tab completion.
```
$ ls -<TAB>              
-1  -- single column output
-A  -- list all except . and ..
-B  -- print octal escapes for control characters
-C  -- list entries in columns sorted vertically
[.. snip ..]
```

### Modules
zsh includes a lot of built-in modules to further change the behaviour of the shell.  I didn't opt to enable them in my config.

### Final configuration
Here's my final zsh config with all the above taken into account.  I imagine 3 months down the road this file will have even more changes.  You can always check the latest in [xocite/dotrc/.zshrc @ GitHub](https://github.com/xocite/dotrc/blob/master/zshrc).

```bash
# Read our aliases file.
source $HOME/.aliases

# Read our local zshrc.
source $HOME/.zshrc_local

# Set environmental variables.
EDITOR=vim

# Turn off system bell if we're not in an SSH session.
if [ -z ${SSH_TTY+x} ]; then
  if [ -z ${DISPLAY+x} ]; then 
    command -v setterm
    if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
      setterm --blength 0
    fi
  else xset -b
  fi
fi


# Set options
setopt AUTO_CD
setopt APPEND_HISTORY
setopt EXTENDED_HISTORY
setopt HIST_NO_STORE

# Load functions
autoload -U compinit && compinit

# Create the prompt.
BLUE="%F{blue}"
OFF="%f"
PROMPT="\$"
PS1="${EMOJI} %{${BLUE}%}${PROMPT}${OFF} "
```

## Further reading
* zsh FAQ [link](http://zsh.sourceforge.net/FAQ/zshfaq03.html#l42)
* Peter Karbowski's zsh config [link](https://github.com/slashbeast/conf-mgmt/blob/master/roles/home_files/files/DOTzshrc)
* zsh manual [link](http://zsh.sourceforge.net/Doc/Release)